README.md, before:

# CARWatch App

![Downloads](https://PlayBadges.pavi2410.me/badge/downloads?id=de.fau.cs.mad.carwatch&pretty)
![Rating](https://PlayBadges.pavi2410.me/badge/ratings?id=de.fau.cs.mad.carwatch&pretty)

CARWatch is an Android application for objectively saliva sampling times during 
cortisol awakening response (CAR) studies.


## Objective
The CAR is the natural increase in cortisol levels that occurs within 30-45 minutes after waking up 
and can be an important indicator for overall health and well-being.

However, many CAR studies suffer from low adherence to the study protocol as well as from the 
lack of precise and objective methods for assessing the awakening and saliva sampling times which 
leads to measurement bias on CAR quantification. This issue can be solved by *CARWatch*, an Android
application that allows for objective saliva sampling times during CAR studies.


## Features
The main purpose of the application is to reduce saliva sampling inaccuracies by 
objectively assessing saliva sampling times during CAR assessment. 

CARWatch includes the following features:
* Awakening time assessment: Awakening can be assessed either by setting an alarm by the user 
  or by pressing a button in the application in the case of spontaneous awakening.
* Saliva sampling time assessment: Saliva sampling times are recorded by setting alarms for 
  each saliva sample which can only be turned off by scanning a barcode on the saliva sampling tube.
* Data export: All data collected by CARWatch can be exported which can be used for 
  further analysis.

## Getting Started
To use CARWatch, simply download the app from the 
[Google Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=de.fau.cs.mad.carwatch).
Alternatively, clone this repository, open the project in Android Studio, build the project and
install the app on your Android device.

## Usage
CARWatch is designed to be used in CAR studies. The following steps describe how to use CARWatch
in a CAR study:  
*to be added*


## How to cite
If you use CARWatch in your research, please cite our Psychoneuroendocrinology 
[paper](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306453023000513):

```
Richer, R., Abel, L., Küderle, A., Eskofier, B. M., & Rohleder, N. (2023). 
CARWatch – A smartphone application for improving the accuracy of cortisol awakening response 
sampling. Psychoneuroendocrinology, 151, 106073. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.psyneuen.2023.106073
```

## Studies using CARWatch
The following papers used CARWatch in their research:
* Richer, R., Küderle, A., Dörr, J., Rohleder, N., & Eskofier, B. M. (2021). 
  Assessing the Influence of the Inner Clock on the Cortisol Awakening Response and 
  Pre-Awakening Movement. 2021 IEEE EMBS International Conference on Biomedical and Health 
  Informatics (BHI), 1–4. https://doi.org/10.1109/BHI50953.2021.9508529
* *further papers to be added - let us know if you used CARWatch in your research!*


## Compatibility
CARWatch requires an Android device running Android 6.0 (Marshmallow) or higher.

## Contributing
We welcome contributions to CARWatch! To contribute, please fork this repository 
and submit a pull request with your changes.

## License
CARWatch is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for more information.

## Contact
If you have any questions or feedback about CARWatch, please contact 
[Robert Richer](mailto:robert.richer@fau.de).

Commit message:

added badge to play store

README.md, after:

# CARWatch App

![Downloads](https://PlayBadges.pavi2410.me/badge/downloads?id=de.fau.cs.mad.carwatch&pretty)
![Rating](https://PlayBadges.pavi2410.me/badge/ratings?id=de.fau.cs.mad.carwatch&pretty)

**Get CARWatch in the Play Store**:
[![Google Play](https://img.shields.io/badge/Google%20Play-CARWatch-3DDC84?logo=google-play&logoColor=white)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=de.fau.cs.mad.carwatch)


CARWatch is an Android application for objectively saliva sampling times during 
cortisol awakening response (CAR) studies.


## Objective
The CAR is the natural increase in cortisol levels that occurs within 30-45 minutes after waking up 
and can be an important indicator for overall health and well-being.

However, many CAR studies suffer from low adherence to the study protocol as well as from the 
lack of precise and objective methods for assessing the awakening and saliva sampling times which 
leads to measurement bias on CAR quantification. This issue can be solved by *CARWatch*, an Android
application that allows for objective saliva sampling times during CAR studies.


## Features
The main purpose of the application is to reduce saliva sampling inaccuracies by 
objectively assessing saliva sampling times during CAR assessment. 

CARWatch includes the following features:
* Awakening time assessment: Awakening can be assessed either by setting an alarm by the user 
  or by pressing a button in the application in the case of spontaneous awakening.
* Saliva sampling time assessment: Saliva sampling times are recorded by setting alarms for 
  each saliva sample which can only be turned off by scanning a barcode on the saliva sampling tube.
* Data export: All data collected by CARWatch can be exported which can be used for 
  further analysis.

## Getting Started
To use CARWatch, simply download the app from the 
[Google Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=de.fau.cs.mad.carwatch).
Alternatively, clone this repository, open the project in Android Studio, build the project and
install the app on your Android device.

## Usage
CARWatch is designed to be used in CAR studies. The following steps describe how to use CARWatch
in a CAR study:  
*to be added*


## How to cite
If you use CARWatch in your research, please cite our Psychoneuroendocrinology 
[paper](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306453023000513):

```
Richer, R., Abel, L., Küderle, A., Eskofier, B. M., & Rohleder, N. (2023). 
CARWatch – A smartphone application for improving the accuracy of cortisol awakening response 
sampling. Psychoneuroendocrinology, 151, 106073. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.psyneuen.2023.106073
```

## Studies using CARWatch
The following papers used CARWatch in their research:
* Richer, R., Küderle, A., Dörr, J., Rohleder, N., & Eskofier, B. M. (2021). 
  Assessing the Influence of the Inner Clock on the Cortisol Awakening Response and 
  Pre-Awakening Movement. 2021 IEEE EMBS International Conference on Biomedical and Health 
  Informatics (BHI), 1–4. https://doi.org/10.1109/BHI50953.2021.9508529
* *further papers to be added - let us know if you used CARWatch in your research!*


## Compatibility
CARWatch requires an Android device running Android 6.0 (Marshmallow) or higher.

## Contributing
We welcome contributions to CARWatch! To contribute, please fork this repository 
and submit a pull request with your changes.

## License
CARWatch is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for more information.

## Contact
If you have any questions or feedback about CARWatch, please contact 
[Robert Richer](mailto:robert.richer@fau.de).
